- [Instructor] Before we get too deep
into working with JDBC,
I want to spend a little bit of time
and talk about relational database management systems
and why they are so important
to application developers today.
A little bit of brief history about relational databases
that I want to talk about.
The term relational database was actually coined
by Edgar Codd in a 1970 paper
titled "A Relational Model of Data
for Large Shared Data Banks".
And he created this while he worked for IBM.
Now this was developed originally
by IBM at San Jose's research facility.
And this was really the beginning of what became databases.
IBM would eventually begin developing
System R at that same facility.
Now Larry Ellison of Software Development Laboratories,
soon to be Relational Software, Inc.,
mimicked most of the RDBMS,
except for the error codes from System R
and created a product called Oracle Database.
They were the first to market.
Now IBM didn't release
its commercial version, DB2, for several years.
And if you've ever followed anything in the software world,
especially around databases, you know where Oracle is.
IBM is still there, but Oracle definitely
has a lion's share of the market
with large database deployments.
Now Codd's paper that he wrote at IBM,
"A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared Data Banks"
was developed at IBM.
And out of this paper came
the so-called 12 rules, Codd's 12 rules.
Now really there's 13, but we call them Codd's 12 rules.
Now today, no single RDBMS implements all of his rules.
But part of his paper yielded the concept
of normalized databases and normal form.
BCNF, or Boyce-Codd normal form,
was a result of the work after the paper
on a stricter version of third normal form.
And that's kind of where his name continues to grow today.
And Codd's theorem dealing with the equality
of relational algebra and relational calculus
is named after him as well.
So he definitely has a name in the database community
that continues to grow.
Now I do think it's only fair
to briefly talk about NoSQL databases.
And I would be remiss if I didn't at least mention them,
especially in today's market.
Especially with cloud computing.
Relational models in this set
have significant issues that NoSQL has risen,
especially in dealing with globally distributed data
and where atomic operations
become difficult, if not impossible.
Now I would argue that both relational and NoSQL databases
have their place in the market,
and ultimately the market would still agree.
Now I want to give you a little bit of a disclaimer here.
I work for a company that is the premier vendor
for an open source top 10 NoSQL database.
But the fact is that, however,
there are more RDBMS systems in the top 10 every month,
at least up to the time of this recording,
then there are NoSQL versions.
There are, however, many signs
of some changes to that top 10 list,
but I don't think RDBMS is going away anytime soon.
Now this course will focus on RDBMS only.
But know that both are valid, useful,
and important to today's developers.
And really it comes down to knowing your use cases.
RDBMS excel at data that has relations
inherent to its storage.
And if you need atomic transactions,
you really need an RDBMS.
Now, NoSQL databases excel in distributed systems,
especially where the distance between clusters
becomes part of the problem, because we no longer worry
about ACID transactions or atomic operations.
We start looking at eventual consistency.
Again, both have their place,
and really it comes down to the use cases.
But for this course, we're going to focus on RDBMS.